All right let's go ahead and finish up this wood plank.
So the first thing I want to do is I want to select the shape of my plank of wood that way I don't paint
outside of it.
Next I'm going to go ahead and select one of these lighter colors.
And what I want to do is I want to find an even lighter version of that because right now my plank of
wood is looking a little bit too dark.
So about there should be good.
I use my brush tool and put my brush at 2 percent or 20 percent opacity.
I'm going to go ahead and paint in some of these areas.
So they're not so dark.
Great.
Next let's go ahead and find a really bright highlight color.
So I'm to come straight up like so maybe a little bit more down towards the red side.
OK.
Now let's go ahead and start painting some highlights.
Next let's grab an even brighter highlight so to about there and I'm going to come back more towards
the yellows.
It's getting a little bit too cool for me.
Let's go ahead and paint in those highlights.
Now I'm going to go ahead and grab sort of a cool color a blue color sort of come up into my blues and
bring some around here.
OK.
And now I'm going to go ahead and just start adding a little bit of blue into my word.
This just makes it look a little bit more interesting.
Great.
Now the last thing I want to do is I want to add a little bit more of a darker edge around the edge
of my plank.
So we have more shadow and we'll be able to differentiate between the two points of wood when they're
next to each other.
And I also want to add a little bit of dark shadow into these cracks to give it a little bit more depth.
So I'm going to select this outside color and then I'm going to find a darker version of it.
So when it comes down to that there and then I'm going to go ahead and start painting in that darker
edge.
Now I saw my brush set to 20 percent opacity
you'll see how I'm painting into these cracks to give it more depth.
Remember you're at 20 percent capacity so you might have to go over the edges a couple of times.
The reason why we're at 20 percent opacity.
You know we're trying to get a completely dark edge.
It's just because we don't want the edges to look too sharp and we want to keep it pretty organic.
And so we're keeping at 20 percent because that allows us to build up the different transparencies on
top of each other.
Great.
Now one last thing I want to change is right here.
We're not having very much definition and these two sort of shapes are just kind of morphing together
down here.
So I'm going to go ahead and select this darker color and I'm going to give some definition.
That kind of break it up
just like so now I'm also thinking I want a little bit more highlight.
Also someone to go ahead and slide my highlight color and find just a little bit lighter version of
that summer up there.
And I'm just going to add the last little bits of highlight and I promise you this will be the last
thing we do on this
cool.
So you just made your first hand-painted plank.
Let's go ahead and make a copy of this letter.
So control J or command commanded J.
Now we're going to drag that over like so.
And what I'm going to do is I can use my Transform Tool and then I'm going to right click.
I'm going to come down to flip horizontal and then I right click again and hit Phlip vertical.
That way we kind of get an opposite shape to start off with when we start creating our second plank.
Let's go out and hit enter.
So what we want to do here is we want to completely reshape the landscape of this plank and we're going
to use these colors that are already here as a base because that'll make it much quicker and easier.
So what I'm going to do first is I'm going to take my mid color and I'm going to bring my brush opacity
up to 4 percent and then we're just going to start sort of repainting in the shape of our wood.
So this time I want to keep my word pretty straight.
This one is kind of go in diagonal.
And we want this woodgrain to be going more in a straight direction.
That way we're kind of changing up the visuals of our wood and they don't both look exactly the same.
All right.
Next what we're going to do is we're going to go ahead and grab one of these and her dark colors.
So like that right there.
And now we can go ahead and start painting and sort of the shadow and between each grain of our wood.
I'm going to select a darker colors maybe like this color down here.
Start painting with that
this time we might add sort of a little not here.
For now I'm just going to kind of create a little cavern right there for it.
Great.
Now let's go ahead and grab another dirt color so maybe something like right there start painting with
that
and we're still going to painting with too much of a blue.
So I want to try to get it in there and get a dark brown
next.
Let's go ahead and start painting in our highlights.
So I'm going to select one of my darker highlight colors maybe from like right there.
Now let's start painting those highlights in
so I'm just going to start off by painting right along the edges of some of my Wood Green
and over here.
I'm going to add a little bit more of a light area because I want to add a sort of another shape over
here.
So smooth down here.
Cool.
Now let's go ahead and select this brown color here and let's just add a little bit more color into
this.
Now I'm going to select this darker shadow color over here and my other piece of wood and I'm going
to paint in a little bit more shadow within this cavernous little area where we're going to have it
not.
We might add a little bit more shadow over here also.
Perfect.
Now let's go ahead and grab our really bright highlight color and let's start adding some real highlights
here.
Cool.
Now I'm going to go ahead and select this darker shadow color over here.
I'm just going to start painting in some of these areas that I no longer really want.
So I might add a little bit more shadow right here and remember you can always use your eyedropper tool
to select that middle color so you can blend
my had a little bit more blending in here just to soften things up.
Now let's go ahead and paint in that not so I'm going to Resul like this highlight color down here and
my not is going to come around like so and then it's going to make a little swirl within our little
cavern.
So I had a little bit more shadow on this side.
So I'm just like the Sturk recolor here start painting around there like so
perfect.
Now let's go ahead and select our final highlight color so I'm going to grab my highlight color again
and then grab just a little bit brighter version of that.
Now we're going to add the last little highlights on our wood
OK.
I think this looks pretty good.
I'm just noticing that there's not much definition between our wood grains.
So what I want to do is I'm going to grab my dark color again and then I'm going to go ahead and just
paint a little bit more definition in there.
And then down here I'm going to go ahead and select this color.
I'm just going to sort of fill this in a little bit more because that shape looks a little bit weird
to me and unnatural
one that will highlight down here.
Maybe grab a lighter highlight color
great.
We're now done creating the hand-painted texture for a wooden crate in the next lecture.
We're going to go out and take this and apply it toward drawing.
Remember that when you're doing hand-painted artwork the idea is to start with your darkest color and
move up to your brightest highlight and then if need to go back you can change things and add other
colors in.
But for the most part that's the way you want to do it.
Thanks for watching this lecture and I look forward to seeing you in the next one.